# Deep space signals analysis

| Designers       | Implemented | GitHub Links |
|-----------------|---|---|
| chromiumboy | :x: No | TBD |

## Concept
"The night is dark and full of terrors."

Deep space signals analysis is a new branch of research that can be conducted by station scientists. It borrows heavily from games such as 'Signal Simulator' and 'Voices of the Void'. Scientists set up and monitor radio telescopes on the periphery of the station, scanning the depths of space for interesting radio signals from various astral phenomena (stars, planets, quasars, etc). Scientists process the signal data acquired from their telescopes to generate research point disks. In addition, conducting signals analysis can provide forewarning of upcoming space-based events (e.g., ion/solar/radiation/meteor storms) and information about ships that might be in the area.

## Progression 
At the start of the round, aspiring astronomers will first need to set up their radio telescopes. The radio telescopes may already be mapped or stored somewhere in the science department as flat-packs. As radio telescopes only function in open space with a long and unobstructed line of sight into the void, scientists will either need to find an EVA suit and obtain external station access to set them up, or else ask engineering for their assistance. Once in place, the radio telescopes will need to be connected to a radio telescope control console (using a multitool/configurator). In addition to tweaking the orientation of radio telescopes, this console displays and allows for the recording of detected signals (signal analysis will take place on a second computer, the deep space spectral analyzer console). After this initial setup period, the scientists can get to work. Scientists may need to periodically return outside to adjust the facing of the radio telescopes or repair them if they are damaged/malfunction.

## Flow
While the radio telescope control console will typically be located within the (relative) safety of the station, the range between the console and its connected radio telescopes is intentionally limited. Due to this range limitation, signal analysis will typically be conducted outside of the science department. This gives scientists an excellent excuse to get out of the lab and even outside of the station, which is handy for antagonists. Being outside of their department also makes scientists more accessible to antagonists. For the convenience of players, the deep space spectral analyzer console should be near the radio telescope control console, so that recorded signals can be easily transferred to it. Scientists will return to their department periodically, however, to deposit the research point disks they have generated (or at least badger a passerby or cyborg into making the trip for them).

## Mechanics
The moment-to-moment gameplay of deep space signal analysis consists of four stages:
1. **Signal detection.** Scientists must first locate a signal of interest to study. If the radio telescopes have been configured correctly, the radio telescope control console will present players with a periodically updating list of signals to pursue. Each signal lists its point of origin, source (if known), and strength (an indicator of how difficult the signal will be to process). Signal strength will decay over time, and the signal will vanish when this value hits zero. While the deep space signal analysis console can be used to tweak the facing of connected radio telescopes, the telescopes can only scan a limited area of space. To detect signals in regions of space outside of these limits, a radio telescope may need to be physically rotated to face a different cardinal direction. Having a large coverage of space allows for the detection of a greater number of signals at a time, allowing scientists to pick and choose which ones they'd like to process next. Converging the radio telescopes to scan the same area will multiply the strength of these signals, allowing them to be processed more efficiently and effectively. This trade-off in coverage vs signal strength allows for some strategic depth - players can opt to cast a wide or narrow net, or alternate between the two (e.g., starting with wide radio telescope coverage, locating a signal of interest, then converging the telescopes on its point of origin to boost the signal strength).
2. **Signal tuning.** Once scientists have decided which signal to study, and have optionally converged multiple radio telescopes onto its origin, they can further boost the strength of the signal by tuning the telescopes to the correct frequency. This is a simple mini-game in which players turn a pair of knobs back and forth, attempting to dial in on the setting that will maximize the signal.
3. **Signal recording.** After tuning is finished, scientists can record the signal. The speed at which the signal is recorded is proportional to its strength, with stronger signals being recorded faster than weaker ones. Once the recording is finished, the radio telescope control console will eject a disk with a copy of the signal recording on it. Scientists can then either set the recording aside and begin hunting for another signal or move to signal processing.
4. **Signal processing.** Signal processing is conducted using the deep space spectral analyzer console. First, a disk with a signal recording from the radio telescope control console is inserted; a waveform representing the signal will appear on the UI along with an estimate of the signal quality. The initial quality of the signal will be proportional to the strength of the original signal, and it represents how much noise is present. Players can use the console's filtering and noise removal tools to clean up the signal and improve its quality. Some care needs to be taken, as aggressive noise removal may actually degrade the signal quality rather than improve it. When the player is satisfied with the signal quality, they can initiate signal processing. After a moderate span of time has elapsed, the console will eject a research point disk. The point value of this disk will be dependent on the signal source and the final quality of the signal; it can be later redeemed by depositing the disk into a tech disk console, located in the science department. Depending on the source of the signal, certain events may trigger when signal processing ends. If the signal was from the local star, a station announcement might occur forewarning of an approaching ion storm, for example. 

## Risks of gazing into the void
Deep space signal analysis is generally a low-risk form of research. However, on rare occasions, scientists will detect signals from unknown sources. These could originate from unknown ships, debris, or unusual deep-space phenomena. Decoding signals with an unknown origin will award a substantial amount of research points. Unfortunately, analyzing signals from deep-space phenomena runs a risk of attracting the notice of certain entities that live in the void, and the odds of this occurring will increase with the number of signals decoded. Drawing the attention of these otherworldly beings is generally not advisable. While scientists *might* be awarded a boon, they are more likely to be afflicted by strange visions, be assaulted by monsters that no one else can see, or even transported to the shadow world. It may even increase the odds of certain mid-round antagonists appearing, such as abductors, heretics, or cultists (when these antagonists are implemented).
