# Spider Rework

| Designers | Implemented | GitHub Links |
|---|---|---|
| HerCoyote23 | :x: No | TBA |

## Overview: 

Ports old /tg/ style spiders, a much loved antagonist. They make a nest, lay eggs, and grow the brood. If all the broodmothers are killed, then the brood is unable to reproduce and eventually dies out.

## Background: 

Spiders(specifically tarantulas) in their current state are boring: They pop
out of vents, fight people, and are eventually wiped out. /tg/ has a very fun version of spiders as a low-threat swarm antagonist, so this is adapting that.

## Details:
The spider gamerule spawns 2 Broodmothers in maints. These broodmothers
lay eggs and place webs, making a home for themselves. After a few
minutes, the eggs start to hatch, being offered to ghost roles.

\# Standard Castes: Regular eggs can hatch into one of three variants of
spider:

Guard: Reasonably beefy, but a bit slower. Does brute damage.

Hunter: Faster, but less durable. Does a mix of brute and toxin damage.

Nurse: Very little health, but can place webs quickly and heal other
spiders with a do-after.

These spiders fight the crew and expand the nest. As they kill
crewmembers, the Broodmothers can Cocoon the bodies to lay Enriched
Eggs.

\# Enriched Castes: Enriched Eggs can hatch into one of three types of
spider:

Broodmother: Medium health and low damage. Places webs quickly. Direct
the swarm, lay eggs, don\'t fight.

Tarantula: Massive health, very slow, huge melee brute damage.

Viper: Very little health, very fast, injects slow-acting poison on
bites, dealing high damage over a long time.

\## Reasons this should exist: \* Current spiders are very barebones and
boring. \* The proposed spiders will act within a niche of being a
low-threat territorial antag. They won\'t end the round or kill
everyone, they\'ll just inject some action into the round. \* When a
player dies to spiders, they can very easily just take spider egg ghost
roles, keeping them engaged in the round. \* The crew get to enjoy
killing hordes of spiders, the spiders get to enjoy many respawns and a
way back into the round. \* Boring, on-station simplemob swarm
antagonists are bad and we should probably aim to slowly remove them,
which this does very well \* This iteration of spiders is vulnerable to
atmos: More atmos/engi content/stuff to do!

\# Non-Goals: \* Make spiders into a round-ending threat \* Make any one
spider caste better than the others
